Hello and begin up where we left off in the last lesson.
That's Kreator first custom Querrey in wordpress.
Before we begin let's create the HMS markup.
First let's remove this paragraph here and we need to create a bootstrap rule here.
You remember why from our last lesson and inside I said container.
Let's open up the page with tags here.
We are going to create a variable to identify the content we want here which will be a future news item.
So let's call this variable future.
If you have some little knowledge of object oriented programming you will not have much trouble understanding
what I'm going to do here.
If you don't pay close attention because it's not that difficult in the end everything will look like
ingredients of a cake recipe.
This variable will be a new instance of a WordPress class called The way you p underscore Querrey to
identify this.
We use the new command and pass declasse name with WP underscore Querrey.
This is what we call a class instance or a class object.
If you have access to several methods and also the variable of this class here but don't be scared.
OK.
We already know some methods of this class.
For example half Bowse and the post are all methods of this WP Querrey class.
But your understand that better as we create everything OK.
What kind of value do we want to keep inside this object here we're going to keep the category to which
the news belong.
We can also save the category that we want to exclude from the list.
For example let's say we don't want news coming from the social media category.
The advantage of all this is that we don't need very deep knowledge of my cycle.
That is we don't have to make a single select to get information about database about posts about pages
taxonomies post time to search for there are two ways we can get this information.
One is using query strings acquires string.
It's something like this.
We pass an argument and its value here followed by 10 percent and a new argument with its value new
and present and so on until it gets to the end of a list of arguments the other way is to an array.
And I'll be showing you both ways.
Let's start with the first method that of the crisis string.
So what we want to fetch from our database.
Well we want a certain number of folks certain categories.
The first argument we are going to pass then is post underscore type the both type here.
In the case is posed it could be a base.
But for now we are only interested in posts with typing in a percent and then we have a second argument.
How many posts do you want to submit in this case since we want only one post which will be our future
news item.
This argument will have the value of one so posts per page equals one.
Now the featured news items belongs to which category we have at least two ways to indicate this here.
You can use the cat argument or category underscore name.
The difference is that for the cat argument we would pass only the category numeric ID with for category
underscore a name we would have to pass the category slug right.
But how can retrieve this information.
Very simple as go to the dashboard head which you posts categories if we hover over the link for each
category.
Pay attention to the link that is shown in the lower left for the Web development category.
We have the ID wishes for for the Web Design category 11 for social media AIDS Otherwise if you want
to use the category name parameter you can grab this slug that we have here in the category table we
can work with both arguments.
But in this case I think we'd better go with the cat argument because the category I.D. will never change.
Meanwhile this law can be changed in the dashboard very easily.
So I stick with the category I.D. let's pass the categories 4 and 11 and leave out the category number
eight to press more than one category inside gross strength.
We separate the values by comer's And now as we define the content we want to fetch that spew the word
Breslov started.
If I have posts
while have posts the post.
However since we're working with the custom Krave they have to indicate first which class object has
the data coming from the database.
In this case the featured object is the variable that is doing this.
We have to pass it here before the name of disfunctions have posts and the post followed by a small
arrow which in fact is nothing more than a hyphen and a greater than sign.
I'm not going to explain technically what's happening here but the important thing to remember is that
whenever we're creating a custom query we have to pass the object variable followed by the little arrow
before half Beauce and the post functions as close to a block
and the block as well.
Right now what's happening here is that you're working with a copy of the original WordPress loop.
That copy is represented by this future variable we created here.
It will give us a huge power since we will be able to work with the same methods used by the original
WordPress Querrey such as have posts and the polls to make the modifications to the equerry parameters
such as the number of returns posts which by default is transpose.
And here is changed to just one post.
Anyway you can control several things using this copy of the loop but as an old man says with great
power comes great responsibility.
So have to pay close attention to not messing up with the default WordPress square UK to do that we
have to reset this custom query and restart the main query to ensure this.
We are going to use a function call will be reset post-edit at the end of our modifieds loop right here
after the end while be very careful because this is very important.
Not using this function can lead to unexpected results.
OK well so far we've learned to create our custom loop but it only fetches information from the database.
But it still doesn't show anything on screen in the next lesson.
You'll learn how to do that and showed everything you want on screen.
OK so see you later.